feat(develop): Document indexed outcome categories (#11452)
getsentry/sentry-docs: develop-docs/application/dynamic-sampling/outcomes.mdx

---

> title: The "indexed" outcome category

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: The “Indexed” Outcome Category
```

sidebar_order: 4
---

> Data types which are subject to dynamic sampling are represented in two different outcome data categories: "total" and "indexed". You can think of the "total" category as counting items that are stored in _aggregated_ form, i.e. as metrics. The "indexed" category counts items that are stored individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data types which are subject to dynamic sampling are represented in two different outcome data categories: "total" and "indexed". You can think of the "total" category as counting items that are stored in _aggregated_ form, in other words, as metrics. The "indexed" category counts items that are stored individually.
```

> If an item is dropped _before_ metrics extraction & dynamic sampling, it will show up in both categories (for example, `"transaction"`  and `"transaction_indexed"`). If an item is dropped _by_ dynamic sampling, it will cease to exist in the "indexed" category, but will live on in the form of metrics.

Reviewer 2: It still exists in the indexed category just as a negative outcome `Filtered` (but the total category it can still be accepted).

Author: 👍 I rephrased.

## Illustration

These charts illustrate the flow of data categories for transactions:

For a sampled transaction:

![](https://mermaid.ink/img/pako:eNp1UT1vgzAQ_SvWzYAgJoA9ZGJru4StdVWdwCGWwI4c04Yi_nsNDI2U1l589z58TzdBbRoJHE6d-arPaB15PgpN_KnKJxKGzqK-Yu2U0WF4IEfZ4bjh6_ORUVZv5aixVzWpsL90Srfv_wo-lG7kTTabcKOV1YNp5YyVf6N3DncsoZcLAfTS9qgaH3BaEPGbUwAnk2_Ug_2USyHAzyrRCiCz0LMX4-BMNeoauLODDGC4NOhkqbC12AM_YXf13Qtq4BPcgCcJi2gRs13BaLYvkl0RwAg8zVjEWBonOaVZwWI6B_BtjHeIo32esyyOk5SmdJcleQCyUT7Hy7aVdTkBWDO05_sPX1f5MtX8Azhkjhw)

For a transaction filtered by dynamic sampling:

![](https://mermaid.ink/img/pako:eNp1UcFSgzAQ_ZXMeoVOaCiQHDxxUy_lpnGcDGzbKCSdNGiR4d8N5WBnqskl-_a9t9ndEWrbIAjYtfarPijnyeNWGhJOVT6QOPZOmZOqvbYmju_JFls1LPnL85ZRVi_lYFSna1Kp7thqs3_9V_CmTYNnbBbhQiurG9PKW4d_Z68ctviOtV9oJz-0SBYkBM5-oLjbUSrNfCGCDl2ndBM6H2eF_B2ABEHGANS9-8Q5kBCaQOUkkEmaKYhV7201mBqEdz1G0B8b5bHUau9UB2Kn2lNAj8qAGOEMIkn4ihWUrwvOsk2RrIsIBhBpxlecpzTJGcsKTtkUwbe1wYGuNnnOM0qTlKVsnSV5BNjoMIanZV2XrUXgbL8_XBd8vsjnX00_t7aW9Q)

> ## Data types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data Types
```
